final-project-nti/README.md, before:

# DevOps Infrastructure Project

This project provisions a complete AWS infrastructure with EKS, sets up a 3-stage deployment pipeline using Azure DevOps, and deploys a sample application with ArgoCD.

## Directory Structure

We adhere to a layered architecture to separate concerns:

```text
/
├── terraform/
│   ├── infrastructure/   # Base Infrastructure (VPC, EKS, ECR)
│   └── tools/            # Cluster Tools (Nginx, ArgoCD, Agents) - Depends on Infrastructure
├── pipelines/            # Azure DevOps Pipeline Definitions
│   ├── infrastructure-pipeline.yml
│   ├── tools-pipeline.yml
│   └── application-pipeline.yml
├── k8s/                  # Kubernetes Manifests for the Application
└── app/                  # Application Source Code
```

## Pipelines

### 1. Infra Pipeline (`pipelines/infrastructure-pipeline.yml`)
*   **Stage**: **Infra**
*   **Directory**: `terraform/infrastructure/`
*   **Goal**: Provisions the base AWS environment and essential networking/compute components.
*   **Components**:
    *   **VPC & Subnets**: Networking foundation.
    *   **EKS**: Kubernetes Cluster.
    *   **Cognito**: User Authentication.
    *   **API Gateway**, **ECR**, **Agents**.

### 2. Platform Pipeline (`pipelines/tools-pipeline.yml`)
*   **Stage**: **Platform**
*   **Directory**: `terraform/tools/`
*   **Goal**: Installs shared cluster services and platform tools.
*   **Dependency**: Runs after Infra pipeline; reads `infrastructure` state.
*   **Components**:
    *   **ArgoCD**: GitOps Continuous Delivery.
    *   **Sonatype Nexus**: Artifact Repository.
    *   **HashiCorp Vault**: Secrets Management.
    *   **SonarQube**: Code Quality Scanner.
    *   **Nginx Ingress Controller**: Traffic routing.

### 3. CI/CD Pipeline (`pipelines/application-pipeline.yml`)
*   **Stage**: **CI/CD**
*   **Directory**: `pipelines/` & `app/`
*   **Goal**: Builds, secures, and deploys the application.
*   **Flow**:
    1.  **CI (Continuous Integration)**:
        *   **Image Build**: Docker build.
        *   **Trivy Scan**: Container image security scan.
        *   **SAST**: SonarQube static analysis.
        *   **Image Push**: Push to ECR.
    2.  **CD (Continuous Delivery)**:
        *   **ArgoCD**: Syncs changes to the cluster (GitOps).

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
*   AWS CLI configured.
*   Terraform installed (`>= 1.0`).
*   Azure DevOps Project created.
*   S3 Bucket for Terraform Backend: `backend-s3-final-project`.

### Local Development

1.  **Deploy Infrastructure**:
    ```bash
    cd terraform/infrastructure
    terraform init
    terraform apply
    ```

2.  **Deploy Tools**:
    ```bash
    cd ../tools
    terraform init
    terraform apply
    ```
    *Note: This requires the infrastructure to be applied first.*

3.  **Deploy Application**:
    *   Push changes to the repository to trigger the pipeline, or apply manifests manually via `kubectl` or ArgoCD.

## Secret Management
Sensitive values (e.g., Datadog API Key, Azure DevOps PAT) are managed via AWS SSM Parameter Store and referenced in Terraform.

## Current Infrastructure Snapshot (as of Feb 2026)
- **Active Compute**: 1x `t3.micro` EC2 in `us-east-1` (Azure DevOps Agent).
- **Storage**: S3 bucket `backend-s3-final-project` for state management.
- **Networking**: Default VPCs available in `us-east-1` and `eu-north-1`. All custom infrastructure cleaned up.

Commit message:

docs: link to project breakdown in readme

final-project-nti/README.md, after:

# DevOps Infrastructure Project

This project provisions a complete AWS infrastructure with EKS, sets up a 3-stage deployment pipeline using Azure DevOps, and deploys a sample application with ArgoCD.

### 📚 Detailed Documentation
**[Click here for a comprehensive breakdown of every file and component in this project](./PROJECT_BREAKDOWN.md)**.
This document explains "what it is, what it does, and why we use it" for every element in the codebase.

## Directory Structure

We adhere to a layered architecture to separate concerns:

```text
/
├── terraform/
│   ├── infrastructure/   # Base Infrastructure (VPC, EKS, ECR)
│   └── tools/            # Cluster Tools (Nginx, ArgoCD, Agents) - Depends on Infrastructure
├── pipelines/            # Azure DevOps Pipeline Definitions
│   ├── infrastructure-pipeline.yml
│   ├── tools-pipeline.yml
│   └── application-pipeline.yml
├── k8s/                  # Kubernetes Manifests for the Application
└── app/                  # Application Source Code
```

## Pipelines

### 1. Infra Pipeline (`pipelines/infrastructure-pipeline.yml`)
*   **Stage**: **Infra**
*   **Directory**: `terraform/infrastructure/`
*   **Goal**: Provisions the base AWS environment and essential networking/compute components.
*   **Components**:
    *   **VPC & Subnets**: Networking foundation.
    *   **EKS**: Kubernetes Cluster.
    *   **Cognito**: User Authentication.
    *   **API Gateway**, **ECR**, **Agents**.

### 2. Platform Pipeline (`pipelines/tools-pipeline.yml`)
*   **Stage**: **Platform**
*   **Directory**: `terraform/tools/`
*   **Goal**: Installs shared cluster services and platform tools.
*   **Dependency**: Runs after Infra pipeline; reads `infrastructure` state.
*   **Components**:
    *   **ArgoCD**: GitOps Continuous Delivery.
    *   **Sonatype Nexus**: Artifact Repository.
    *   **HashiCorp Vault**: Secrets Management.
    *   **SonarQube**: Code Quality Scanner.
    *   **Nginx Ingress Controller**: Traffic routing.

### 3. CI/CD Pipeline (`pipelines/application-pipeline.yml`)
*   **Stage**: **CI/CD**
*   **Directory**: `pipelines/` & `app/`
*   **Goal**: Builds, secures, and deploys the application.
*   **Flow**:
    1.  **CI (Continuous Integration)**:
        *   **Image Build**: Docker build.
        *   **Trivy Scan**: Container image security scan.
        *   **SAST**: SonarQube static analysis.
        *   **Image Push**: Push to ECR.
    2.  **CD (Continuous Delivery)**:
        *   **ArgoCD**: Syncs changes to the cluster (GitOps).

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
*   AWS CLI configured.
*   Terraform installed (`>= 1.0`).
*   Azure DevOps Project created.
*   S3 Bucket for Terraform Backend: `backend-s3-final-project`.

### Local Development

1.  **Deploy Infrastructure**:
    ```bash
    cd terraform/infrastructure
    terraform init
    terraform apply
    ```

2.  **Deploy Tools**:
    ```bash
    cd ../tools
    terraform init
    terraform apply
    ```
    *Note: This requires the infrastructure to be applied first.*

3.  **Deploy Application**:
    *   Push changes to the repository to trigger the pipeline, or apply manifests manually via `kubectl` or ArgoCD.

## Secret Management
Sensitive values (e.g., Datadog API Key, Azure DevOps PAT) are managed via AWS SSM Parameter Store and referenced in Terraform.

## Current Infrastructure Snapshot (as of Feb 2026)
- **Active Compute**: 1x `t3.micro` EC2 in `us-east-1` (Azure DevOps Agent).
- **Storage**: S3 bucket `backend-s3-final-project` for state management.
- **Networking**: Default VPCs available in `us-east-1` and `eu-north-1`. All custom infrastructure cleaned up.
